doc: nrf54h20 gs guide update (#15106)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/device_guides/working_with_nrf/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_gs.rst

If you have already set up your nRF54H20 DK and want to learn more, see the following documentation:

* :ref:`configuration_and_build` documentation to learn more about the |NCS| development environment.

> * ``ug_nrf54`` documentation for more advanced topics related to the nRF54H20.

Reviewer: This reference doesn't seem to work after render.

Hardware
========

> * nRF54H20 DK version PCA10175 v0.8.0 (ES3).

Author: ```suggestion
* nRF54H20 DK version PCA10175 v0.7.0 or v0.8.0 (ES3).
```

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Windows

      Follow these steps:

      1. Open Git Bash.
      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.
      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager launch --terminal --chdir "c:/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         This setup allows you to access west and other development tools.
         Alternatively, you can set up the environment variables manually by running the following command::

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager env --as-script

         Copy-paste the output into the terminal and execute it to enable the use of west directly in that window.

         .. note::

>             When working with the customer sampling release, you must always use a terminal window where the west environmental variables have been called.

Reviewer 2: This still does not match Lines 121 and 177.

Author: It cannot match, it describes a different scenario. On Linux and MacOS we are instructing just how to open a terminal window having toolchain ready to use.
On Windows we are describing 2 different options, and they can choose any of these.

Reviewer 2: I would still expect their wording to be closer to the wording for the Windows version, something along the lines of:
```
When working with west in the customer sampling release, you must always use a shell window with the |NCS| toolchain environment.
```

***************************************

The nRF54H20 SoC requires the installation of a bundle ( :file:`nrf54h20_soc_binaries_v0.3.0.zip`) containing the precompiled firmware for the Secure Domain and System Controller:

..
   ### Update bundle link

1. Download the `nRF54H20 firmware bundle`_.
   The bundle is a ZIP archive that contains the following files:

   * :file:`nordic_top.suit`
   * :file:`suit_installed_envelopes_secure_merged.hex`
   * :file:`sysctrl.hex`
   * :file:`urot.hex`

#. Unzip the bundle in a folder of your choice, then indicate the bundle folder path to nRF Util using the following command::

      nrfutil device x-provision-nrf54h --firmware *path-to_bundle_.zip_file* --serial-number *serialnumber*

..
   ### ADAC Commands
   ### Flash the sample first

.. _ug_nrf54h20_gs_sample:

Programming the sample
**********************

..
   ## check build commands

The :ref:`multicore_hello_world` sample is a multicore sample running on both the Application core (``cpuapp``) and the Peripheral Processor (PPR, ``cpuppr``).
It uses the ``nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp`` build target.

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 DK, complete the following steps:

> 

Reviewer 3: Step 1 below: Connect the nRF54H20 DK to you computer using the IMCU USB port on the DK. ->Connect the nRF54H20 DK to your computer using the IMCU USB port on the DK.

Follow these steps:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Windows

      1. Open Git Bash.
      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.
      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager launch --terminal --chdir "c:/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         This setup allows you to access west and other development tools.
         Alternatively, you can set up the environment variables manually by running the following command::

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager env --as-script

         Copy-paste the output into the terminal and execute it to enable the use of west directly in that window.

         .. note::

>             When working with west in the customer sampling release, you must always use a shell window with the |NCS| toolchain environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            When working with west in the customer sampling release, you must always use a terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment.
```

      If you run into errors during the installation process, delete the :file:`.west` folder inside the :file:`C:\\ncs-lcs` directory, and start over.

   .. tab:: Linux

      1. Open a terminal window.
      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.
      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            $HOME/ncs-lcs/nrfutil toolchain-manager launch --shell --chdir "$HOME/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         .. note::

>             When working with west in the customer sampling release version of |NCS|, you must always use this shell window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            When working with west in the customer sampling release, you must always use a shell window with the |NCS| toolchain environment.
```

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.

         .. note::
            On macOS, the install directory is :file:`/opt/nordic/ncs`.
            This means that creating the directory requires root access.
            You will be prompted to grant the script admin rights for the creation of the folder on the first install.
            The folder will be created with the necessary access rights to the user, so subsequent installs do not require root access.

            Do not run the toolchain-manager installation as root (for example, using `sudo`).
            It restricts access to the root user only, meaning you will need the root access for any subsequent installations.
            If you run the script as root, to fix permissions delete the installation folder and run the script again as a non-root user.

      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            /Users/*yourusername*/ncs-lcs/nrfutil toolchain-manager launch --shell --chdir "/Users/*yourusername*/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         .. note::

>             When working with west in the customer sampling release version of |NCS|, you must always use this shell window.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            When working with west in the customer sampling release, you must always use a shell window with the |NCS| toolchain environment.
```

    |___ nrfxlib
    |___ zephyr
    |___ ...

Note that there are additional folders, and that the structure might change.
The full set of repositories and folders is defined in the manifest file.

Installing the Terminal application
***********************************

On your computer, install `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
You must also install a terminal emulator, such as `nRF Connect Serial Terminal`_ (from the nRF Connect for Desktop application) or the nRF Terminal (part of the `nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code`_ extension).

.. _ug_nrf54h20_gs_bringup:

nRF54H20 bring-up
*****************

The following sections describe the steps required for the nRF54H20 bring up.

.. _ug_nrf54h20_gs_fwbundle:

Installing the nRF54H20 firmware bundle
=======================================

The nRF54H20 SoC requires the installation of a bundle ( :file:`nrf54h20_soc_binaries_v0.3.2.zip`) containing the precompiled firmware for the Secure Domain and System Controller:

..
   ### Update bundle link

1. Download the `nRF54H20 firmware bundle`_.
#. Move the :file:`ZIP` bundle to a folder of your choice, then indicate the bundle folder path to nRF Util using the following command::

>       nrfutil device x-provision-nrf54h --firmware *path-to_bundle_.zip_file* --serial-number *serialnumber*

Reviewer: This command will flash secdomfw and sysctrlfw so it is described here: _Programming the SDFW and SCFW from the bundle_ 
I am not sure if the order make any difference but it should be done once. (Internal bringup says first BICR and then SDFW with SCFW)

If the lifecycle state (``psa_lifecycle``) shown is not ``RoT`` (``LIFECYCLE_EMPTY (0x1000)`` means it is ``EMPTY``), set it to Root of Trust using the following command::

   nrfutil device x-adac-lcs-change --life-cycle rot --serial-number *serialnumber*

The output will look similar to the following::

   *serial_number*
   adac_auth_version     1.0
   vendor_id             Nordic VLSI ASA
   soc_class             0x00005420
   soc_id                [e6, 6f, 21, b6, dc, be, 11, ee, e5, 03, 6f, fe, 4d, 7b, 2e, 07]
   hw_permissions_fixed  [00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00]
   hw_permissions_mask   [01, 00, 00, 00, 87, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00, 00]
   psa_lifecycle         LIFECYCLE_ROT (0x2000)
   sda_id                0x01
   secrom_revision       0xad3b3cd0
   sysrom_revision       0xebc8f190
   token_formats         [TokenAdac]
   cert_formats          [CertAdac]
   cryptosystems         [Ed25519Sha512]
   Additional TLVs:
   TargetIdentity: [ff, ff, ff, ff, ff, ff, ff, ff]

The lifecycle state (``psa_lifecycle``) is now correctly set to Root of Trust (``LIFECYCLE_ROT (0x2000)``)

Reset the device::

>    nrfutil device reset --reset-kind RESET_PIN --core Secure --serial-number $snr

Reviewer: Probably you can not use "--core Secure" after you switch LCS to ROT. @hakonfam

.. _ug_nrf54h20_gs_sample:

Programming the sample
**********************

..
   ## check build commands

The :ref:`multicore_hello_world` sample is a multicore sample running on both the Application core (``cpuapp``) and the Peripheral Processor (PPR, ``cpuppr``).
It uses the ``nrf54h20dk_nrf54h20_cpuapp`` build target.

To build and program the sample to the nRF54H20 DK, complete the following steps:

> 1. Connect the nRF54H20 DK to your computer using the IMCU USB port on the DK.

Reviewer: on new DK this is not IMCU USB any more ;) It is _DEBUGGER_ now.

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/production/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.
      #. Run the following command in Git Bash:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager launch --terminal --chdir "c:/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         This opens a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment, where west and other development tools are available.
         Alternatively, you can run the following command::

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager env --as-script

         This gives all the necessary environmental variables you need to copy-paste and execute in the same terminal window to be able to run west directly there.

         .. caution::
            When working with the customer sampling release, you must always use the terminal window where the west environmental variables have been called.

>       #. Install the `Serial Terminal from nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This isn't part of installing the toolchain, and is covered in Installing the terminal application.

      If you run into errors during the installation process, delete the :file:`.west` folder inside the :file:`C:\\ncs-lcs` directory, and start over.

>       We recommend adding the nRF Util path to your environmental variables.

Reviewer 2: Since this part is repeated in each tab, it could be taken out and have it after the tabs.

Author: It is not, windows, macos and linux have different folders mentioned there

   .. tab:: Linux

      Follow these steps:

      1. Open a terminal window.
      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/production/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.

>       #. Run the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      #. Run the following command:
```

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            $HOME/ncs-lcs/nrfutil toolchain-manager launch --shell --chdir "$HOME/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

>          This makes west and other development tools in the |NCS| toolchain environment available in the same shell session.

Reviewer 2: Worded differently than in the Windows section. Should probably unify.

         .. caution::

>             When working with west in the customer sampling release version of |NCS|, you must always use this shell window.

Reviewer 2: Very different wording than in the Windows section.

>       #. Install the `Serial Terminal from nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

      If you run into errors during the installation process, delete the :file:`.west` folder inside the :file:`ncs-lcs` directory, and start over.

      We recommend adding the nRF Util path to your environmental variables.

   .. tab:: macOS

      Follow these steps:

      1. Open a terminal window.
      #. Install `Homebrew`_:

         .. code-block:: bash

            /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

>       #. Use ``brew`` to install the required dependencies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      #. Use the ``brew`` command to install the required dependencies:
```

            Do not run the toolchain-manager installation as root (for example, using `sudo`), as this would cause the directory to only grant access to root, meaning subsequent installations will also require root access.
            If you run the script as root, to fix permissions delete the installation folder and run the script again as a non-root user.

      #. Run the following command in your terminal:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            /Users/*yourusername*/ncs-lcs/nrfutil toolchain-manager launch --shell --chdir "/Users/*yourusername*/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         This makes west and other development tools in the |NCS| toolchain environment available in the same shell session.

         .. caution::
            When working with west in the customer sampling release version of |NCS|, you must always use this shell window.

      #. Run the following commands in your terminal to install the correct lxml dependency:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            pip uninstall -y lxml
            pip install lxml

>       #. Install the `Serial Terminal from nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

1. In the terminal window opened during the toolchain installation, initialize west with the revision of the |NCS| from the customer sampling by running the following command:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west init -m https://github.com/nrfconnect/sdk-nrf --mr v2.6.99-cs2

#. Enter the following command to clone the project repositories::

      west update

   Depending on your connection, this might take some time.

#. Export a :ref:`Zephyr CMake package <zephyr:cmake_pkg>`.
   This allows CMake to automatically load the boilerplate code required for building |NCS| applications::

      west zephyr-export

Your directory structure now looks similar to this::

    ncs-lcs/work-dir
    |___ .west
    |___ bootloader
    |___ modules
    |___ nrf
    |___ nrfxlib
    |___ zephyr
    |___ ...

Note that there are additional folders, and that the structure might change.
The full set of repositories and folders is defined in the manifest file.

Installing the Terminal application
***********************************

On your computer, install `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

> You must also install a terminal emulator, such as `nRF Connect Serial Terminal`_ (from the nRF Connect for Desktop application) or the nRF Terminal (part of the `nRF Connect for Visual Studio Code`_ extension).

Reviewer 2: This could probably be moved Required software, where git and curl are already mentioned.

Author: I'd disagree on suggesting this before the toolchain installation, as the nrfconnect for vscode will want to know ncs path, and nrf connect for desktop can also install the toolchain, but the wrong one. Till we drop the bootstrap script this should be done after.

Reviewer 2: Ah, that makes sense for this.

Installing the nRF54H20 firmware bundle
***************************************

The nRF54H20 SoC requires the installation of a bundle ( :file:`nrf54h20_soc_binaries.zip`) containing the firmwares for the Secure Domain and System Controller:

..
   ### Update bundle link

1. Download the `nRF54H20 firmware bundle`_.

>    The zip contains the following files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The bundle is a ZIP archive that contains the following files:
```

   * nordic_top.suit
   * suit_installed_envelopes_secure_merged.hex
   * sysctrl.hex

>    * urot.hex

Reviewer 2: :file: to all of these.

> #. Unzip the file in a folder of your choice, then indicate the bundle folder path to nRF Util:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Unzip the ZIP archive in a folder of your choice, then indicate the folder path to nRF Util:
```

|supported OS|

You also need the following:

* `Git`_ or `Git for Windows`_ (on Linux and Mac, or Windows, respectively)
* `curl`

.. _nrf54h20_gs_installing_software:

Installing the required software
********************************

To work with the nRF54H20 DK, follow the instructions in the next sections to install the required tools.

.. _nrf54h20_install_toolchain:

Installing the toolchain
========================

You can install the toolchain for the customer sampling of the |NCS| by running an installation script.
Ensure that you additionally have Git and curl installed.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Windows

      Follow these steps:

>       1. Open git bash.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      1. Open Git Bash.
```

Relates to Wille's comment - capitalizing both seems to be the most common occurrence online

      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/production/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

>          Depending on your connection, this might take some time.
>       #. Run the following command in Git Bash:
> 
>          .. parsed-literal::
>             :class: highlight
> 
>             c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager launch --terminal --chdir "c:/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2
> 
>          This opens a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment, where west and other development tools are available.
>          Alternatively, you can run the following command::
> 
>             c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager env --as-script
> 
>          This gives all the necessary environmental variables you need to copy-paste and execute in the same terminal window to be able to run west directly there.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.
      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager launch --terminal --chdir "c:/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

         This setup allows you to access west and other development tools.
         Alternatively, you can set up the environment variables manually by running the following command::

            c:/ncs-lcs/nrfutil.exe toolchain-manager env --as-script

         Copy-paste the output into the terminal and execute it to enable the use of west directly in that window.
```

I moved some information describing the commands before they're mentioned as I feel that if user is to make a decision regarding which one to run they should have some overview before they execute it.

         .. caution::
            When working with the customer sampling release, you must always use the terminal window where the west environmental variables have been called.

      #. Install the `Serial Terminal from nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

      If you run into errors during the installation process, delete the :file:`.west` folder inside the :file:`C:\\ncs-lcs` directory, and start over.

      We recommend adding the nRF Util path to your environmental variables.

   .. tab:: Linux

      Follow these steps:

      1. Open a terminal window.
      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/production/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.

>       #. Run the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:
```

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            $HOME/ncs-lcs/nrfutil toolchain-manager launch --shell --chdir "$HOME/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

>          This makes west and other development tools in the |NCS| toolchain environment available in the same shell session.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
         This setup allows you to access west and other development tools.
```

         .. caution::
            When working with west in the customer sampling release version of |NCS|, you must always use this shell window.

      #. Install the `Serial Terminal from nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

      If you run into errors during the installation process, delete the :file:`.west` folder inside the :file:`ncs-lcs` directory, and start over.

      We recommend adding the nRF Util path to your environmental variables.

   .. tab:: macOS

      Follow these steps:

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

         Ensure that these dependencies are installed with their versions as specified in the :ref:`Required tools table <req_tools_table>`.
         To check the installed versions, run the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

             brew list --versions

      #. Download and run the :file:`bootstrap-toolchain.sh` installation script file using the following command:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://files.nordicsemi.com/artifactory/swtools/external/production/scripts/bootstrap-toolchain.sh | NCS_TOOLCHAIN_VERSION=v2.6.99-cs2 sh

         Depending on your connection, this might take some time.

         .. note::
            On macOS, the install directory is :file:`/opt/nordic/ncs`.
            This means that creating the directory requires root access.
            You will be prompted to grant the script admin rights for the creation of the folder on the first install.
            The folder will be created with the necessary access rights to the user, so subsequent installs do not require root access.

>             Do not run the toolchain-manager installation as root (for example, using `sudo`), as this would cause the directory to only grant access to root, meaning subsequent installations will also require root access.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
            Do not run the toolchain-manager installation as root (for example, using `sudo`). 
            It restricts access to the root user only, meaning you will need the root access for any subsequent installations.
```

            If you run the script as root, to fix permissions delete the installation folder and run the script again as a non-root user.

>       #. Run the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      #. Open a new terminal window with the |NCS| toolchain environment by running the following command:
```

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            /Users/*yourusername*/ncs-lcs/nrfutil toolchain-manager launch --shell --chdir "/Users/*yourusername*/ncs-lcs/work-dir" --ncs-version v2.6.99-cs2

>          This makes west and other development tools in the |NCS| toolchain environment available in the same shell session.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
         This setup allows you to access west and other development tools.
```

         .. caution::
            When working with west in the customer sampling release version of |NCS|, you must always use this shell window.

      #. Run the following commands in your terminal to install the correct lxml dependency:

         .. parsed-literal::
            :class: highlight

            pip uninstall -y lxml
            pip install lxml

      #. Install the `Serial Terminal from nRF Connect for Desktop`_.

      If you run into errors during the installation process, delete the :file:`.west` folder inside the :file:`ncs-lcs` directory, and start over.

      We recommend adding the nRF Util path to your environmental variables.

.. _nrf54h20_install_ncs:

Installing the |NCS|
====================

After you have installed the toolchain, complete the following steps to get the customer sampling version of the |NCS|:

> 1. In the terminal window opened during the toolchain installation, initialize west with the revision of the |NCS| from the customer sampling by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. In the terminal window opened during the toolchain installation, initialize west with the revision of the |NCS| from the customer sampling:
```
